But you can see what we're doing.
So we're doing things a little bit before.
This is just to get the process started.
It's not going to make sense until we all sit down and talk about it.
So don't worry.
(laughs)
So the yeast that we're using is called Sema.
This is a Lau Cafe yeast.
Lau Cafe is the brand
and Sema is just the commercial name.
It's just the, it's not like a strain.
It's the, yeah, the commercial name
that the company has given it.
I like this yeast because it is the most,
like it plays very well with a lot of varieties.
I put this on Castillo, I put this on Tabby,
I put this on Sous-Valbre-Mais,
I put this on random hybrids.
This is, it just is not the best option for all of them,
but it is the most good across the board.
the most universal. (speaking in foreign language)
It's not the best, but I've tried it with many varieties, many different types of coffee
and in almost all cases it works very well.
So it's like the most universal, the easiest to use, the one I think of the most.
So this yeast was developed for coffee.
They started with a base of wine, like the yeast that exists for wine,
(speaking in foreign language)
It's like the way to choose a variety of coffee to say,
"Okay, this one needs those ingredients,
it behaves very well with this temperature."
So, they are being selected.
But it's not like something that is genetically modified.
It's just selected from nature.
From what already exists, they are selecting the characteristics of this strain
that works well with coffee.
And it depends on the location, for example?
Yes, for example, can you use this in other regions of Colombia?
Totally, no, I have used it in Africa, Guatemala, in all 13 different countries with 30 different varieties.
This works very well for me. It is universal.
And in the commercialized, where is it?
Here in Colombia, right now they only have like 3 or 4 positions.
one in Guatemala, one in El Salvador, one here in Colombia where they have yeast in existence.
In other countries they are making alliances with baristas, with other people in the coffee world
who can keep a small stock in their countries or who can communicate with the people.
Because that is made in Denmark, but there is a lot of existence in the United States.
So there are two bigger places where they have all the yeast.
So it's very easy to get in the United States and in those three Latin American countries.
And in the rest of the world it's going slowly.
The brand is Alcafe.
Alcafe.
Just as a reference, how much can it cost?
This, only the yeast, is 500 grams and it's like 45 dollars.
The yeast.
The fleta can be like three times the cost
because it depends on all the requirements
and you need that certificate
so each country is very different
so it's very difficult to say how much it costs in India
and how much it costs
but the mere yeast should be $45
And how much is it used to ferment?
It is used to ferment, the dose is
1 kilo of sculpted coffee, 1 gram of yeast
1 kilo per gram
[Spanish]
So what we're talking about is...
They also have Intenso.
There are four.
Four commercially available.
What do you think about Intenso?
I like it too. It's just one of the newer ones.
So I've been using this one for like seven years.
Intenso is like four years old.
So I just haven't used it as long.
But I like it a lot too.
It's really interchangeable. This is just what I had in my closet.
So I like this one.
Cash.
So we're chatting that this
yeast is originally from the wine world. So it was selected from an existing bank of Saccharomyces
yeast. So it wasn't like developed, it wasn't genetically modified, it's just in the way that
you do plant breeding and you say I like how tall this one is, I like how fruitful this one is,
I like the flavor of this one, I'm going to cross breed and then I'm going to get a new plant that
I like the characteristics of. That's how they do yeast breeding too. They say this yeast has
has really good temperature tolerance.
This yeast has really good, like,
low nutrient requirements.
It's a very easy yeast.
Let's breed those together
and then we'll get something different.
So it's not genetically modified,
it's just bred to be the conditions of coffee
that have really different temperatures,
that have very intense, like, a lot of pressure,
a lot of competition from other yeast.
We know that the conditions in Beneficios are challenging
in terms of not having a lot of cleanliness
or like hygiene practices.
So this yeast is really tough to withstand a lot.
So there could be another yeast that's like more beautiful
and more delicate and gives you like jasmine florals.
But as soon as you put it in a mill environment,
it's just gonna struggle
and potentially just not really do anything.
So the other important question that people wanna know
is the price of this yeast.
So this 500 gram brick is about $45.
And that's pretty expensive in the world of coffee.
We talked about prices.
Fertilizer, like the pressures that producers have,
$45 is a lot.
The goal originally of the company was to make yeast
be about, add four to five cents a pound
to the cost of production.
So about the cost of a grain pro.
Like it should be something fairly manageable.
But because it's still early and there's so few places
have it, the cost of actually getting this shipped to you with freight, with all of the
certificates, you need to have a phytosanitary certificate and all of the barriers, it ends up
being like 15 to 20 cents a pound extra, which is really expensive for a lot of producers to afford.
So that's a bit of the barrier, like it's so expensive, nobody's using it, but until more
people start using it, the cost can't go down. So we're like in this like five-year stalemate.
So I still think it's a really good method, but it's just really important to point out that it's not that accessible yet.
Unless you have connections in the US, you should bring some in your suitcase.
Colombia, actually Colombia has stock. In Colombia, Guatemala has stock, and El Salvador has like a warehouse with this yeast already there.
to paper shipping. It's still pretty expensive, but the company's working on finding partners
in producing countries that can keep a small stock. And Joey's question was, "How long
does it last?" So if you keep it like this, vacuum sealed, cool, better in the fridge
if it's unopened, you can keep it for three years. Three to four years. So you can have
it over multiple seasons.
freezer. I don't think that's necessary. Usually a lot of places, like freezer
space is at a premium, so it's in most Latin countries it's it's a big ask to
have this much in a freezer. If you can't, it's not gonna hurt it, it's just not a
requirement. So I just like to say keep it room temperature but cool, but better
if you can use it, if you can use it sooner. And this yeast is produced in cool places,
so this is manufactured in Denmark. And it's another question, like, why isn't it manufactured
in Latin countries? Like, why don't they have a plant here to make it? My understanding
is that the process to make this yeast is so energy intensive. It releases so much heat
that the cooling cost would be cost prohibitive here.
And so in places like Denmark, or they also do it.
I don't remember where else right now.
Denmark is the most the biggest plant.
They use a natural cooling properties of the region
to to manage these really hot reactions.
What else was I going to say?
So right now, we're going to rehydrate the yeast.
And again, we're working a little bit backwards.
We're going to do the thing because the coffee's ready,
and then we're going to talk about why are we doing this more slowly.
So no worries.
So the most important thing is how much yeast do we use?
The dosage I mentioned is one gram per one kilogram.
So how many kilos of pulped coffee do we have?
We can weigh it.
We can weigh the tank.
But at this point, we can do a calculation as well.
I know how much cherry came in because we weighed the cherry.
[INAUDIBLE]
Yes.
So who's going to help me with the calculator?
So, the cherry that came in, 500 kilos, right?
Yes.
500 kilos of cherry, but we took 45 kilos of green.
45 kilos.
45 kilos of green that we selected yesterday.
And we took 10 kilos of the ripe one.
So we took out...
45 kilos.
Huh?
440 kilos.
445.
So the way that I would do this normally is to weigh my pulped coffee.
But it's a little bit complicated right now just because of the scale and the lifting the tank.
So I can do it mathematically.
So I know how much cherry came in. 500 kilos.
I'm going to take away my green, which was 45.
I'm going to take away the overripe, which was 10.
So now I have 445.
445.
So I'm just going to divide that in half.
say half of my weight was lost with my skins.
will we weigh one nerdfill off?
1/2 pan
1/2 pan for jelly lined ale?
[Spanish]
So it's not the most exact, the best way. If you want to, like when I'm with a new client, we weigh it.
We weigh our cherry, and then we pulp our coffee,
and then we weigh our pulp coffee
to see if it's 55%, if it's 60%.
You know, it'll also depend on the variety and our dense.
But for practical purposes,
it's just easy to cut it in half for right now.
So 222 kilos.
But we're making a citric lot and a lactic lot.
So I already asked Sebas to separate that.
So the citric is 14 kilos.
(speaking in foreign language)
So they took our pulped coffee.
You don't have to memorize this,
This is sort of like, we took our pulped coffee,
and I know I'm taking some for the citric,
and I know I'm taking some for the lactic.
And those were easy to weigh,
so Sebastian already weighed those.
So what I have left, kilos available for my yeast,
is 196 kilos.
196 kilos pulped, 196 grams of yeast.
So I'm gonna weigh that out right now.
- And then what, how, you said three years closed and sealed.
How long after this?
- Really good question.
after it's open it would depend on my my condition so here very humid and with
this yeast is is dried so in these humid conditions if it starts to rehydrate on
its own it starts to not be available for me to use so in these conditions I
like to use the packet like within the week with more coffee coming in maybe it
could last like two weeks, but it's much shorter because we have all this moisture in the air.
What about if it were like separated out with a smaller vac sealed?
It could be open and vac sealed immediately and that'd be okay enough?
That's a better option.
And then it would last longer?
It would last longer.
So, it's three years in the empty, but now that it's open and exposed to all the humidity
that we have in these producing countries, I prefer to use the bag in about two weeks.
And now that it's open, you can't store it at the same time.
So, what I want is 196.
(sniffing)
(speaking in foreign language)
You wanna smell it?
[ Background noise ]
So this recipe of kilo to pulp coffee,
the kilo of parchment to yeast,
and then how much water we use is in your packet,
so you don't have to memorize any of this.
And it's a very standard recipe,
and it's on the back of the bag.
So you don't have to worry about memorizing any of this.
But what I want now is 10 times the weight.
So this is almost, like, it's going to be,
say 200 grams so I want two liters of water to rehydrate and I want
so the formula for the yeast recipe is 10 times the weight in water
Entonces vamos a decir 200 gramos, entonces quiero 2 litros de agua caliente.
Esa receta está en el paquete y también está en la bolsa.
Entonces no es algo para memorizar, es algo muy conocido.
Ahora, yo quiero el agua de la levadura a 37 grados.
Entonces tomo agua fría.
Cold water, I want 37 degrees to rehydrate my yeast.
this is at 21
cold water and then
hot water. So this is at 63.
So I'm just gonna mix hot and cold.
Voy a mezclar para llegar a los dos litros con agua de 37.
It's just a guess and check.
41, I want 37, more cold water.
37 and I want 2 liters.
No los cumpli. So I didn't quite get to 2 liters. It's up there so I'm just gonna
add a little bit more cold.
37.5, it's very close.
The goal is 37.
So what I prefer to prepare the yeast is
first mix to get to 37 and if I go over,
throw a little.
Many times I see people who waste time
trying to do both at the same time,
just get to two and it's not necessary.
So I already have my two liters
and I'm going to add, that point is very important,
yeast to water, not water to yeast.
It's like in the kitchen. The powder to the water.
So this is an important part too, is now that I have my two liters of water at 37,
I add yeast to water, not the water to the yeast. So just like in baking, you
want to add your dry ingredients to your wet.
And I use the same thermometer to mix.
I want. You don't have to go that slow but we definitely don't want to agitate it too much.
(birds chirping)
(speaking in foreign language)
I also benefited from the fact that they had some problems with the yeast.
They already had a harvest experimenting with the yeast and they didn't get the results they expected.
And when I saw how they were preparing it, they were using a mixer, a drill, to mix the yeast very quickly.
A mixer.
and the yeast is alive, so we shouldn't mistreat it.
What I want is that everything touches water.
Here it's a little dry on top.
Everything is in water.
Very little is left in my thermometer.
And I need a stopwatch for 20 minutes.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
So that's what you don't want to do.
You don't want to go by time.
You don't want to say, I started it at 9.45, so I came at 10.05.
What you want to do is set a timer, because you will forget.
You'll get busy.
You'll do something else.
So if you do it by time or you do like a counting up,
like how much time has passed.
So like this is counting up.
I don't want to count up because what we're doing is
the yeast is asleep.
We're rehydrating it, we're waking it up.
So you've woken it up, you've woken up the beast.
And if you don't give it food, then it starts to die.
So if you wait 30 minutes,
then that time the beast is starting to die.
(speaking in foreign language)
So it's to maintain the temperature and to avoid insects or other things that can get into the jar.
And we're going to leave it still for 20 minutes.
So what Marco and Katia said was, "Okay, we see the time, so at 3.15 we have to check the temperature."
And they said, "No, that's not the right way because we get busy, something else happens and we forget and it's been half an hour."
(speaking in foreign language)
and if we don't add food to it in 20 minutes, it starts to die.
And we don't do anything.
So that's another problem that I see very common in benefits,
is that they prepare the yeast to advance the work,
they prepare it, they wake it up, and they forget it and go to something else,
and it died, and then they add dead yeast to fermentation, and nothing happens.
And you say, "No, that yeast is not useful."
No, because they woke it up and didn't give it food.
So that's something to keep in mind.
So I don't want to...
It's better to have an alarm set up to say,
"20 minutes, we have to pay attention to her."
Another mistake I see very common is that people overmix,
like they mix it too hard, and they're checking her.
It's like, to respect the yeast, we wake her up in warm water,
and we're going to leave her alone.
We're not going to be moving it from one side to the other.
It's like giving it time to wake up.
It's not convenient to shake with a spoon.
Because the shaking was very light.
Very light, and if you use a spoon,
the spoon has a larger surface area,
so more yeast stays stuck to the spoon.
Or worse, in large quantities, when we use a bucket,
they use a wooden spoon for the juice.
[Spanish]
So what we're talking about is the lid is important.
a little bit of a temperature retention just to be able to kind of keep it at that warm state.
We don't have a problem today because it's hot here but in other like higher elevation places
it gets very cold and so the yeast can drop temperature very quickly. We also want a lid
to prevent any insects coming in and contaminating our yeast. And the other part that's important
that a lot of people get wrong is they we have 20 minutes where we just leave her alone and let her
wake up slowly. If we do it by time and say, "Okay, it's 9.45, so at 10.05 I'll be back."
That's 20 minutes. Then we could forget. We just get busy or something else happens and then we
just... the time, the 20 minutes passes. And what's happening is that we've... the yeast is asleep,
we've asked it to wake up, then we don't give her food and then she starts to die. And so a lot of
times people are putting dead yeast or half-active yeast into their fermentation because they weren't
paying attention to the time because in a lot of places you want to do things efficiently and
quickly so you prepare the yeast in the beginning of the day and then you pulp like four hours later
and your yeast is completely dead. So this is not a step that can be done in advance. It's really
something that you do when your coffee's pulped and that's why if we had started this this morning
it took us four hours. They started at 6 30, it's almost 10, he's still pulping. So you really can't
start that early. You have to time it to when my coffee is ready to be added.
Because what we're gonna do is we're gonna add coffee to this, give her some food.
So if the weather is quite cold, I mean the water, how high can you put it?
Because I mean you start from 37, but if right here, like 10 or something else, can you be a little bit higher?
In that case, I would put the container in a water bath so that it maintains the temperature.
Because, again, we're thinking about how rude it would be if you're asleep and they just drop you in cold water.
And you wake up and you're like, "I don't want to work."
So we're trying to be very gentle to the yeast.
We're trying to wake them up in a warm bath, give her time, not a lot of agitation.
So I mentioned you saw me just get everything wet
and with a little bit of agitation.
The story I mentioned in Spanish was I went to a place
where they had been using the yeast for a while,
but they weren't getting the results that they wanted.
And when I got there, 'cause they were doing big batches.
So they, instead of this container,
they had like five gallon buckets
that they were using a bunch at a time.
And to make it easier for them,
they were using a drill to like mix,
like a really fast mixer with a drill
to like get all the yeast wet.
And so again, I think that was really affecting
the activity of their yeast
because they're very rough with the yeast.
- And why we waiting, how we know that it's still
breaking up or it's just splitting?
Because sometimes we see some activity, some bubbling.
- Yeah, so the way that you know that
is kind of the reputation of the brand.
So you kind of have to trust
because not all yeast will bubble.
It really depends on the strain.
Not, they don't all like bubble and are really active.
A lot of them are just 'cause it's easier to see.
So just because there's not a lot of activity
doesn't mean it's dead.
But then you think about, okay, how old is it?
Oh, I've had this sitting here for five years.
Or this is like a not, you know, it's a off-brand.
It's like some other random yeast.
It could be because of that.
So buying from a company that has a good reputation,
that's been doing it for a long time,
knowing that your expiration date is not past,
and knowing that you didn't drop the temperature,
like you said, if we were in a really cold mountaintop,
and this was warm, but the environment was really cold
and it dropped really fast,
that would really affect the activity.
So we wanna be gentle.
So it's just kind of like looking at all those factors
to say, is it just the yeast that doesn't bubble,
or is my yeast expire old, a bad source?
So if everything was fine, even though we had to stay like this, we have to trust it?
Kind of have to trust it, yes.
And we'll see more of the visual clues a little bit later once we add it, and then tomorrow once it's had a chance to get going, you'll see more of those clues.
But a little bit is just kind of that experience to know, is it dead, or is it just shy?
[INAUDIBLE]
Some batches are more active than others?
Yes.
So that's the question.
But we afraid that some batch kind of--
like nothing happen?
Mm-hmm.
Is it OK to not--
So it is a natural product.
So any time it's a natural product,
there's going to be variation.
So what I would do is if you know you're using SEMA,
you have the lot number.
So you can see, is this lot number,
is it all from the same lot that's behaving one way?
And you tell them, you write them an email and you say,
"Hey, this is what I noticed on this batch
"with this lot number in this batch with this lot number."
And then they can say, "Oh, actually,
"we used a new stabilizer and it's totally fine.
"There's a little less activity in that batch."
Or, "Oh, this is really bad, let's get you a new lot."
So you have to tell them.
And that's also the benefit of going with a company
that has a long history,
is that you can have that customer service.
You can say--
- But the variation could also be
because of temperature or agitation.
- So that's the information that you would want to tell them
when they can say, "Well, did you use a drill to mix it?"
And you say, "No, Lucia said be very gentle.
"I used a spoon.
"This is my temperature."
So that you can tell them to,
"I did my part.
"Maybe it was the batch.
"Maybe something went wrong."
How do I know how much water I need to use? 10 times the weight. So that's in your packet, and it's also in here. 500 grams, 5 liters. Going into...
to the amount of water.
And that's the weight.
And the type of water
does it influence?
It influences a lot.
So for this step,
the type of water should be potable.
If I don't drink it, I won't give it to the yeast.
I won't drink
river water to
rehydrate the yeast.
Does chlorine or something else affect the yeast?
It affects a lot because chlorine is
antimicrobial, so
(speaking in foreign language)
- You can boil it and let it rest
and then like you get the rest of the water.
(speaking in foreign language)
and let it cool down
and use it to eliminate its compotency
so the fermentation water
doesn't have to be drinkable
we are using
hose water, any
but for this step
So she's alive, she's happy.
Was it bumped or did that just happen?
No.
It was like kind of a layer of bubble underneath the bottle.
And then it just like, flipped over.
So you were saying it's okay if that water is chlorinated?
Not necessarily chlorinated, I'm saying I'm very strict about this water being potable water.
water. If you wouldn't drink it, don't give it to the yeast. I wouldn't go drink a
cup of water from the river, so I'm not gonna use that water for beer. Just to activate it.
Just to activate it. Just to activate it because whatever's in the tank... I mean,
so people say is there like a perfect water and I'm like, well what are you
gonna do to like rechange the structure of your mill to get perfect water? So
it's like I don't talk about things that are so outside of like the scope of what
a typical producer can do.
So would it be better to have all potable water?
Absolutely.
Who's going to do that?
Like, it's not worth it for me to mention that.
So I just say, at least for this,
can you get two liters of drinkable water
to process this much coffee?
So tap water should be OK?
Yeah, if you would drink it, that's my biggest--
So it doesn't have to be the aisle water, high TBS mineral
water, anything?
Just if you would drink it.
Okay.
Yeah.
Chlorine, sorry, chlorine wouldn't affect you.
Chlorine does affect it because chlorine is something that we want to, the bacteria, it's
a sanitizing agent.
So this is a microbe.
So you don't want to sit here like that.
Yeah.
So unchlorinated potable water.
And you can...
What about distilled water?
Do you have this option?
Yeah.
Okay.
So you can drink it.
Yeah.
Okay.
So you can drink it.
Yeah.
Okay.
So you can drink it.
Yeah.
Okay.
So you can drink it.
Yeah.
Okay.
I haven't tried it with distilled water. I would imagine you want some kind of mineral
composition. I don't know. I've never tried it with distilled water. I find distilled
water really difficult to get here in Latin countries.
What's your opinion about somebody using yeast in a liquid?
What do you mean, prepare yeast?
I mean, not the dry yeast, but the fresh yeast.
Oh, I think that's great.
A lot of beer yeasts are prepared that way, that are already rehydrated and you just pitch a certain amount of the bottle.
that's great. This is already expensive enough and this is completely dry so
when you have those other yeast you're shipping water so it's way more expensive
but if you have that like if you live near a brewery and they can just give
you some that's great but I just generally recommend this is the it's
already expensive and it's the cheapest option. While we're waiting for this
we've got like seven more minutes right we're going to... Cecil do you have your pH meter?
So one of the things we were talking about over there is how many producers invest in
tanks, beautiful fermentation bioreactors, and they don't even have a pH meter.
So it's sort of like, you know, where you're putting your source, your attention.
We are talking about producers that invest a lot in their tanks,
they have a bioreactor of stainless steel and they don't have a pH meter.
So they are focusing on the wrong things, because a pH meter gives you a lot of information
and a tank is not the only way to get, or it is not the best way to get a successful fermentation.
But the other problem, many have a bioreactor tank and they don't have a pH meter
and those that do have a pH meter don't have liquids to calibrate.
I hardly see that. If they have a pH meter, they don't have liquids. Right?
Yes.
So the biggest, if you guys want chairs, we're going to be here a while.
The biggest disappointment is seeing producers that spend all this money on a bioreactor
and these beautiful tanks and don't even have a pH meter.
It's like 20 bucks, 30 bucks.
And if they do have a pH meter, hardly anybody has buffers.
No one's calibrating their pH meters.
They don't realize how quickly they come out of calibration.
So this is what you need to get.
You have some, okay.
So your question was, so he has this pH meter and he asked me, does this work?
And that's what your liquids will tell you.
So have you not tried it?
Two things I will mention right off the bat is this probe is a glass bulb and it's very
delicate.
One of the things I will notice is that this glass bowl is a little bit dirty. It has some residue on it.
You guys want to see?
It's a little bit dirty, the bulb.
And it's dry.
It's like another point is to keep the bulb moist.
So, how do you clean it?
Hey, can you bring my, um, can you just bring the tubes for the little satchels, the targets?
[Spanish]
So I want to show you the one that I have.
There's liquid in here.
And you can see my bulb.
Oh, it's clean.
It's very clean.
[LAUGHTER]
So it's a clean bulb, and you keep it moist.
[DOG BARKING]
So what you're going to want to do--
can you see it?
[DOG BARKING]
Can you see the--
[INAUDIBLE]
[DOG BARKING]
So let's see.
And you said you keep it moist.
Is this like--
There's some storage solution, or you can use buffers.
like the buffer that's closest to it. I just put a couple drops in the cap.
El vidrio del bombillo. You can see the glass. One is very clear and one is
decorated.
So I'm going to put all of these in here.
(dog barking)
I'm gonna turn them all on and let's see what they say.
We're gonna give them a minute.
So this one it says it has a watch,
so it's thinking, it's waiting.
So this is a cleaning solution.
So you can get either little packets like this that are easy,
and you open it and you stick it in.
Or you can get a full bottle of cleaning solution.
It's not expensive.
And yeah, Hanna Instruments is a really good company.
Do you want to take a picture?
Oh, you already got a picture.
Is this for example purposes, or do you
I recommend using more than one to take off the samples across.
I recommend having more than one because pH meters are pretty cheap, they're really useful,
and they don't last as long as people think.
I mean, these pH meters, they really should be like a year, two years, depending on your
use, and I've seen people that keep them for five forever.
They're like, "I have one forever," and they're not that robust.
They're not that expensive.
20 bucks, you know, get new ones.
So the other thing is, let's see these.
So this is buffer four.
All of these should say four.
This one says 3.9, I accept.
Look at this, this one says 5.9.
Very un-gallop-rated.
This one says 13.
This one is crazy.
And my three is still thinking.
And so-so, let's see.
What do we have here?
How recently were these used to be that off?
Last September.
So I haven't used these since the last FGC.
So now our yeast, you can see some.
You can see like these geysers.
(speaking in foreign language)
- So the temperature is still really important.
So I wanna see how much has it dropped or has it gone up.
So one degree, 37 to 36.
(speaking in foreign language)
they are colder
That's what I knew
The coffee is at 22°C
So, from 36°C to 22°C
is a very strong thermal shock
for the yeast
We wake it up like this, calm
soft, hot water
and if we leave it cold
it can be damaged
So, what we do is
we lower the temperature
soft, we add a little bit of
cold coffee to lower the temperature
(speaking in foreign language)
Now it's really going.
Look at her go.
- Go.
(laughing)
- How are you?
- So, Mac, do you see this?
There's no question that she's wearing a badge.
- Oh yeah, like this, no question.
(laughing)
Sometimes it's just really low activity,
so we just kind of worry.
- Yes, and that's when you take a note of the badge,
and we'll take other--
because we just, I mean, should we wait longer?
What we should do with that?
I mean, just think.
I'm in everyone's picture.
By the time that happened, we just acting.
Should we wait a little bit longer?
Sometimes I do.
If she's a little bit slow, I do give her more time.
But she's very, very active, so she's like, "Feed me!"
So now I'm just going to add,
this is going to splash everywhere.
So I'm adding cold coffee.
(dog barking)
How much coffee?
I don't know.
Guess and check.
(dog barking)
So I wanna drop my temperature slowly.
33, 34.
That was only two degrees.
So I wanna drop a little bit more
'cause I wanna be within 10 degrees of my coffee.
I want it to be 32 below.
10 is an important number.
10 times the weight, 10 degrees, 10...
So you want it to be in between the temperature between the yeast solution and the coffee?
Yes.
So now I'm within 10, 32 and 22.
Coffee.
I'm gonna put a little bit more just to get closer.
(dog barking)
[speaking Spanish]
I lowered it to 36, I lowered it to 32, the coffee is at 22. We are already at 10 degrees.
But I had more coffee, so if I can lower it a little more.
They are always 10 degrees of difference.
Or less. The less the better. But it was more than 10, so I have to lower it, at least to that window, that range of 10.
Of the coffee?
(speaking in foreign language)
15 more minutes, 10 minutes, let's do 10.
10, 10 minutes.
So it's not just about dropping the temperature
and adding the coffee, it's dropping the temperature,
letting the yeast have time to adapt to the new temperature,
and then we'll add the coffee.
So let me wash my hands.
(people chattering)
[ Background noise ]
>> Okay, so where's my seven?
Check it.
And then the little cup, the other little cup.
We're going to calibrate our pH meters because they're all...
So this should be 4 and it's at 3.9.
For me that tolerance is good.
This one...
So we look at these two.
13 and 2.
That's very, very uncalibrated.
But some people, like if you don't check it, you just take out your pH meter and you don't
have any information.
(speaking in foreign language)
And so, so, so yours is up to you.
So I wanna see the ones that are the most off.
All right, look at this one.
Look at my probe.
compared to this probe.
Oh, it's dirty?
Yeah.
Like hazy?
It's dark.
It's stained.
It's either from coffee or corroded.
So if that were cleaned right after use,
would that not be a good thing?
Three points of stain.
Or do you clean it when you use it?
Do you mean three points of stain?
Well, I don't know.
It keeps going up.
It goes up and down?
Well, no.
I wanted to show you these two.
That's not cleaning.
Yes.
So this one gives me four and this one gives me 13.
So when it's dirty that way, it's a problem.
Can you fix that?
It depends how old the probe is.
So you put, if we put his in a soaking, in a cleaning solution, usually like overnight,
you need several hours for it to work.
And then try it again, maybe it'll clean up.
So you put it in a soaking solution, and then you put it in a cleaning solution, and then
you put it in a cleaning solution.
And then you put it in a cleaning solution, and then you put it in a soaking solution.
And then you put it in a cleaning solution, and then you put it in a cleaning solution.
It depends how old the probe is.
So you put, if we put his in a soaking, in a cleaning solution, usually like overnight,
you need several hours for it to work.
And then try it again, maybe it'll clean up.
Maybe that's just, it was just dirty, or it could just be that it's old.
So over time, pH probes do not last that long.
You should change them out more frequently.
How long have you had this one?
A long time.
What was the reading in that one?
Two.
But it's not like you can calibrate it once.
You can't calibrate it if you see which doctor should do it three times.
You can calibrate it, but sometimes it's so old that it doesn't adapt to the new one or the correct calibration.
And another problem is that it can be calibrated very quickly.
(speaking in foreign language)
If it's something medical, something very important, it's calibrated before each measurement.
If it's something more relaxed, like coffee, I do it once a day, once every day.
But the older, the longer my tachometer is, I don't do it every day.
So, that effort of calibrating every day, twice a day, is not worth it.
Yes, it is heated.
The amount of coffee we put, what was the ratio?
Enough to lower the temperature to 5 or 8 degrees.
So, there, because of the size of the container, if I had a smaller container,
I would buy a bigger one to put more coffee to lower the temperature.
So the objective of the coffee is to lower the temperature.
(speaking in foreign language)
It depends on the quantity where we are starting and also the ambient temperature and the coffee's temperature.
So, it's a test of error to see if it's right.
Yes.
Because on a colder day, it could have lost a lot more temperature.
Exactly.
So, this step of adding coffee is not always necessary if the temperature of the yeast is low enough or if the coffee is hotter.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
Yeah, so coffee's not always necessary to add.
It's just because it was so warm.
And our environment is really warm, so it's not cooling.
If it was a colder day and it just
lowered its temperature on its own,
we wouldn't need to do this.
This is just an extra step because the coffee's cold
and the yeast is warm, and we don't want to shock her.
So where's my one that works?
Not this one.
I need to find my one that's like this.
I think it's this one.
[INAUDIBLE]
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
And for me, it's 3.9.
I'm going to go to the next step.
But there are others who want to know how it's exact.
And they say, well, that's true.
Because each point in pH is 10 points.
It's not 1, it's a logarithm of 10.
So between 1 point is much more than just 1.
So this is the safest.
So I'm going to go to the next step.
This is lemon juice.
Lemon from my house.
And the pH is at 2.
So this is lemon juice from lemons that we took from our house and the pH is at 2.
So what I want to do is remove mucilage mechanically.
Can you bring me the both citrus containers?
So yesterday we talked about fermentation being the traditional view of just removing the mucilage.
Just getting my seed out and freeing it from the fruit.
So this method, it's very confusing because the citric method is just about mechanically removing.
There should be no citric influence on the coffee.
[Spanish]
(coughing)
(speaking in Spanish)
You already know that the coffee is very sticky.
- I'll help you.
(speaking in foreign language)
- Does this need to be,
why don't you just use citric acid?
- A little powder?
So, (speaking in foreign language)
or orange.
Citric acid.
I've never tried it, but we're gonna try it.
(speaking in foreign language)
- Mandarin. - Mandarin, uh-huh.
So we're gonna take a break, put this in the yeast,
and we're gonna come back to this one.
(audience chattering)
So if you want, let's do the math.
It's seven kilos of cold coffee,
and we added two liters of syrup.
So it was just to get to cover it.
It's more about volume.
Wait, like I just need enough liquid to cover it?
- I'm at the 75 meter square.
- Oh, yeah, exactly.
Yeah, this is just,
who's going to,
Tomarco, you get the plunger.
Very carefully, very slowly.
Take our baby.
Be nice to her.
Yes, you can take it off. This is not lactic. This is a label.
Let's go to the tank.
Don't cross yourself!
I'm very honest.
[BLANK_AUDIO]